---
permalink: /
title: "About me"
excerpt: "About me"
author_profile: true
redirect_from:

- /about/
- /about.html

---

Prof. Louis Wong earned his BSc degree in Earth Sciences from the Department of Earth Sciences at the University of Hong
Kong in 1999, thanks to the Stephen Kam Chuen Cheung Memorial Scholarship. He went on to complete his PhD in
Geotechnical Engineering at MIT in 2008, under the Croucher Foundation Scholarship and the Sir Edward Youde Memorial
Fellowship for Overseas Studies.

Prof. Wong's teaching and research interests lie in engineering geology, rock mechanics, and underground engineering. He
currently serves as the Editor-in-Chief of the Bulletin of Engineering Geology and the Environment (Springer), and is a
member of the editorial boards for Engineering Geology (Elsevier), Rock Mechanics and Rock Engineering (Springer), and
Journal of Rock Mechanics and Geotechnical Engineering (Elsevier). As of September 2023, Prof. Wong has published over 130
refereed journal papers and is listed among
the ["HKU Scholars in the Top 1%"](http://hub.hku.hk/local/top1pc/top1pc.jsp) for his worldwide recognition in at least
one of the 22 research fields.

In addition to his academic pursuits, Prof. Wong is a member of the HKIE Geotechnical Division Committee, a Co-opted
Council Member of the Institute of Materials, Minerals, and Mining (Hong Kong Branch), the Hong Kong Regional Group
President for the International Association of Engineering Geology and Environment (IAEG) Council, a Technical Assessor
for the Hong Kong Accreditation Service (HKAS), an External Member of the Assessment Committee for Logging Geologists (
CEDD).

Before joining HKU, Prof. Wong held the position of Assistant Professor and Assistant Chair (Academic) at the Nanyang
Technological University (NTU) School of Civil and Environmental Engineering in Singapore. He also gained practical
experience as a consulting tunnel engineer at CDM in the USA and completed the Engineering Geology Graduate (EGG)
training with the Geotechnical Engineering Office (GEO). His accomplishments include receiving the Richard Wolter's
Prize from the IAEG (2014), the Best Paper Award from the Journal of Computer and Geotechnics (2017), and the Best Paper
Award at the 53rd US Rock Mechanics/Geomechanics Symposium (2019). Furthermore, Prof. Wong's dedication to teaching was
recognized with the Nanyang Education Award at NTU for the academic year 2012/13.




